# Day 02

- [x] Arrays

We read values out of arrays using their numerical position, counting from 0. This “counting from 0” has a technical term: we can say that Swift’s arrays are zero-based. Swift will automatically crash your program if you attempt to read an array using an invalid index.
I know what you’re thinking: an app crash is bad, right? Right. But trust me: if Swift didn’t crash then it’s very likely you would get back bad data, because you tried to read a value outside what your array holds.

- [x] Sets

Sets are collections of values just like arrays, except they have two differences:
1. Items aren’t stored in any order; they are stored in what is effectively a random order.
2. No item can appear twice in a set; all items must be unique.
If you try to insert a duplicate item into a set, the duplicates get ignored. For example:
```
let colors2 = Set(["red", "green", "blue", "red", "blue"])
```
This difference between set and array means that sets are more useful for times when you want to say “does this item exist?”

- [x] Tuples

Tuples allow you to store several values together in a single value. That might sound like arrays, but tuples are different:
1. You can’t add or remove items from a tuple; they are fixed in size.
2. You can’t change the type of items in a tuple; they always have the same types they were created with.
3. You can access items in a tuple using numerical positions or by naming them, but Swift won’t let you read numbers or names that don’t exist.
Tuples are created by placing multiple items into parentheses, like this:
```
var name = (first: "Taylor", last: "Swift")
name.0
name.first
```
Tuples store values together in a single value.

- [x] Arrays vs Sets vs Tuples

arrays keep the order and can have duplicates, sets are unordered and can’t have duplicates, and tuples have fixed values of fixed types inside them.

If you need a specific, fixed collection of related values where each item has a precise position or name, you should use a tuple:
```
let address = (house: 555, street: "Taylor Swift Avenue", city: "Nashville")
```
If you need a collection of values that must be unique or you need to be able to check whether a specific item is in there extremely quickly, you should use a set:
```
let set = Set(["aardvark", "astronaut", "azalea"])
```
If you need a collection of values that can contain duplicates, or the order of your items matters, you should use an array:
```
let pythons = ["Eric", "Graham", "John", "Michael", "Terry", "Terry"]
```

Both tuples and arrays allow us to hold several values in one variable, but tuples hold a fixed set of things that can’t be changed, whereas variable arrays can have items added to them indefinitely.
Another advantage to tuples is that each value is specifically created by you, so as well as providing a name you also provide a type. So, you could create a tuple like this one:
```
var person = (name: "Paul", age: 40, isMarried: true)
```
That combines a string, an integer, and a Boolean in a single value, which would be pretty ugly in an array.

Dictionaries provide an interesting third case, because they give us some of the name safety of tuples but can grow and change like arrays


- [ ] Dictionaries

When using type annotations, dictionaries are written in brackets with a colon between your identifier and value types. For example, [String: Double] and [String: String].

Dictionaries let us choose a “key” that identifies the item we want to add, whereas arrays just add each item sequentially.
Like sets, dictionaries don’t store our items with a specific order, so they optimize the way they store items for fast retrieval.

- [ ] Dictionaries Default Values


- [ ] Creating Empty Collections


- [ ] Enumerations



- [ ] Enum Associated Values



- [ ] Enum Raw Values



- [ ] Complex Types: Summary

