# Day 001

- [x] Varibles

Once you create a variable using var, you can change it as often as you want without using var again. For example:
```
var favoriteShow = "Orange is the New Black"
favoriteShow = "The Good Place"
favoriteShow = "Doctor Who"
```

- [x] Srtings and Integers

Swift is what’s known as a type-safe language, which means that every variable must be of one specific type. When you create a variable Swift can figure out what type the variable is based on what kind of data you assign to it, and from then on that variable will always have that one specific type.
If you have large numbers, Swift lets you use underscores as thousands separators – they don’t change the number, but they do make it easier to read. 
```
var population = 8_000_000
```

- [x] Multi-line Strings

If you want multi-line strings you need slightly different syntax: start and end with three double quote marks, and the final three quotes must be on a line by themselves, like this:
```
var str1 = """
This goes
over multiple
lines
"""
```
If you only want multi-line strings to format your code neatly, and you don’t want those line breaks to actually be in your string, end each line with a \, like this:
```
var str2 = """
This goes \
over multiple \
lines
"""
```

- [x] Doubles and Booleans

We cannot add an integer with a double.

- [x] String Interpolation

You can place any type of variable inside your string – all you have to do is write a backslash, \, followed by your variable name in parentheses. For example:
```
var score = 85
var str = "Your score was \(score)"
```
Swift is capable of placing any kind of data inside string interpolation. The result might not always be useful, but for all of Swift’s basic types – strings, integers, Booleans, etc – the results are great.
Tip: String interpolation is extremely powerful in Swift. If you’re keen to see just what it can do, check out this more advanced blog post from me: https://www.hackingwithswift.com/articles/178/super-powered-string-interpolation-in-swift-5-0

- [x] Constants

Swift really loves constants, and in fact will recommend you use one if you created a variable then never changed its value. The reason for this is about avoiding problems: any variable you create can be changed by you whenever you want and as often as you want, so you lose some control – that important piece of user data you stashed away might be removed or replaced at any point in the future.

- [x] Type Annotations

Why using type annotations:
1. Swift can’t figure out what type should be used.
2. You want Swift to use a different type from its default.
3. You don’t want to assign a value just yet.

- [x] Simple TypesL Summary

You’ve made it to the end of the first part of this series, so let’s summarize.
1. You make variables using var and constants using let. It’s preferable to use constants as often as possible.
2. Strings start and end with double quotes, but if you want them to run across multiple lines you should use three sets of double quotes.
3. Integers hold whole numbers, doubles hold fractional numbers, and booleans hold true or false.
4. String interpolation allows you to create strings from other variables and constants, placing their values inside your string.
5. Swift uses type inference to assign each variable or constant a type, but you can provide explicit types if you want.
